Migrate Quanta/DEM documentation (#4629)
centreon/centreon-documentation: dem/installation/servers/install-system-agents.md

---
id: install-system-agents
title: Install System Agents
---

> 

Reviewer: La mise en page de ce fichier est différent pour le français et l'anglais (même commentaire ajouté à la version française)

To add, modify, or delete a server in DEM, you must have “Admin” or “Owner” permissions on your Organization. Ask your administrator or DEM support to grant you the correct rights ([support@quanta.io](mailto:support@quanta.io)).

At this time, it is not possible to link a server to multiple sites, whether within the same Organization or not.

Sending information to the DEM application requires installing the DEM agent on all servers you wish to monitor.

> System agents must be able to communicate with our infrastructure. You may need to whitelist our [IP addresses](../dem-ip-addresses.md).

## Get the Token

To install DEM System Agents, you will need your **auto-registration token**. It is available in *Configuration > System.*

See where to find the token in this video:

> [Find the token for system agents](https://www.loom.com/share/8e1958d64017451a8a0b7a63ab5c8185)

Reviewer: le lien mène vers une vidéo loom intitulée "Token System FR", il y a peut-être une version anglaise que l'on pourrait mettre ici à la place ?

---
id: install-system-agents
title: Install System Agents
---

# Install System Agents

> To add, modify, or delete a server in DEM, you must have “Admin” or “Owner” permissions on your Organization. Ask your administrator or DEM support to grant you this access ([support@quanta.io](mailto:support@quanta.io)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add, modify, or delete a server in DEM, you must have “Admin” or “Owner” permissions on your Organization. Ask your administrator or DEM support to grant you the correct rights ([support@quanta.io](mailto:support@quanta.io)).
```

At this time, it is not possible to link a server to multiple sites, whether within the same Organization or not.

> Sending information to the DEM application requires installing an agent on all servers you wish to monitor. To do so, you need to install the DEM agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sending information to the DEM application requires installing the DEM agent on all servers you wish to monitor.
```

<aside>
💡 System agents must be able to communicate with our infrastructure. Find our IP addresses on the dedicated page:

[DEM IP Addresses](../dem-ip-addresses.md)

> </aside>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> System agents must be able to communicate with our infrastructure. You may need to whitelist our [IP addresses](../dem-ip-addresses.md).
```

# Get the Token

To install DEM System Agents, you will need your **auto-registration token**. It is available in *Configuration > System.*

See where to find the token in this video:

[Find the token for system agents](https://www.loom.com/share/8e1958d64017451a8a0b7a63ab5c8185)

# Proceed with Installation

<aside>
⚠️ If you are using Docker containers or autoscaling systems (AWS ASG, Azure Scale Set, or others), refer to the section *“Installation for Docker and Autoscaling Systems”* before installing on the OS.

> </aside>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you are using Docker containers or autoscaling systems (AWS ASG, Azure Scale Set, or others), refer to the **Installation for Docker and Autoscaling Systems** section before installing on the OS.
```

## Installation for Debian

To install the DEM agent:

> 1. Add the following line to the file **/etc/apt/sources.list.d/quanta.list**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the following line to the **/etc/apt/sources.list.d/quanta.list** file.
 
```

*For Buster (versions 10.*)*

    ```bash
    deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/quanta-archive-keyring.pgp] http://apt.quanta.io/debian buster main
    ```

    *For Bullseye (versions 11.*)*

    ```bash
    deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/quanta-archive-keyring.pgp] https://apt.quanta.io/debian bullseye main
    ```

    *For Bookworm (versions 12.*)*

    ```bash
    deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/quanta-archive-keyring.pgp] https://apt.quanta.io/debian bookworm main
    ```

>     If unsure of your version, you can read the file ***/etc/debian_version***.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If unsure of your version, you can read the **/etc/debian_version** file.
```

    ### `BETA` Version

    <aside>
    💡 To use the **BETA** version, simply replace `main` at the end of the line with `beta`.

>     </aside>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To use the **BETA** version, simply replace `main` at the end of the line with `beta`.
```

2. Download and add the **GPG** key for our repository:

    ```bash
    curl https://apt.quanta.io/quanta-repo-key.gpg | gpg -o /usr/share/keyrings/quanta-archive-keyring.pgp --dearmor
    ```

3. Update the package list:

    ```bash
    apt update
    ```

4. Install the agent:

    ```bash
    apt install quanta-agent
    ```

You will be prompted for the token during installation, and system data should appear in DEM within a minute.

## Installation for Ubuntu

To install the DEM agent:

> 1. Add the following line to the file **/etc/apt/sources.list.d/quanta.list**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the following line to the **/etc/apt/sources.list.d/quanta.list** file.

```

*For Jammy*

    ```bash
    deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/quanta-archive-keyring.pgp] https://apt.quanta.io/ubuntu jammy main
    ```

    *For Kinetic*

    ```bash
    deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/quanta-archive-keyring.pgp] https://apt.quanta.io/ubuntu kinetic main
    ```

    *For Lunar*

    ```bash
    deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/quanta-archive-keyring.pgp] https://apt.quanta.io/ubuntu lunar main
    ```

    ### `BETA` Version

>     <aside>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     💡 To use the **BETA** version, simply replace `main` at the end of the line with `beta`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To use the **BETA** version, simply replace `main` at the end of the line with `beta`.
```

>     </aside>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
